# Outline

https://mlc.ai/summer22/

https://mlc.ai/zh/index.html  
 https://github.com/mlc-ai/mlc-zh/discussions  
https://mlc.ai/index.html  
https://github.com/mlc-ai/mlc-en/discussions

Why study machine learning compilation

Key elements in machine learning compilation

## Software Landscape

由硬件向上，编译器，标准库，应用
| Landscape|
|---------|
| Wide Range of Applications|
| Software Libraries |
| Python LLVM/Clang |
| Hardware |

AI Software Landscape

ML Models : Transformer,ResNet,LSTM---   

需要把这些训练好的模型部署在各种硬件上   

## Machine Learning Deployment Problem

hardware(ARM,x86,RISCV), operation system, container execution environment, runtime library variants,accelerator involved...

 ## Machine Learning Compilation

 Development Form -->(MLC Process) ---> Deployment Form

 机器学习编译在本节课中是指的一个过程，将模型从开发的形态转化为一个部署的形态。  
 部署时需要打包一些库   

 ## MLC Goal: Integration and Dependency Minimization 

 Development:  
 框架如pytorch、TF等提供了很多我们当前开发模型并不需要的支持。  
 Deployment：  
 最小化对模型支持的库数量  
 Integrate libraries(possibly developed by different parties) together and only incorporate necessary ones  
 将自定义的算子、库与厂商的库整合到一起。   

 ## MLC Goal:Leverage Hardware Native Acceleration   



 ## MLC Goal:Optimization in General  

 There are many equivalent ways to run the same model execution。The common theme of MLC is optimization in different forms:   

- Minimize memory usage.
- Improve execution efficiency.
- Scaling to multiple heterogeneous nodes.  

## Machine Learning Compilation:Remarks  

机器学习编译与传统编译很多东西（利用的技术和技巧）都不一样，机器学习编译不一定非得代码生成。  

The term "compilation" make an analogy to traditional compilation (e.g. GCC).However, the techniques involved can be quite different for the two problems.   
The process does not have to involve code generation - the deployment form can simply be a model description and an engine that execute it natively.  
The development form and deployment form can be the same (in terms of framwork interface).  
Deployment form also applies to training besides inference needs(e.g., on device intelligence for privacy reasons, scaling out).   

## Reason #1 to Study MLC:Build ML Deployment Solutions  

A lot of complexities are involved in bringing machine learning models to production or incorporating novel model customizations.   
Machine learning compilation gives us a set of tools to solve problems such as memory size reduction, efficiency optimization, and dependency minimization.   

## Reason #2: In-depth Understanding of Existing Frameworks  

Machine learning compilation techniques are becoming increasingly relevant for machine learning frameworks.  
Understanding the behind-scene techniques provides us super power to build models that can be co-optimized by the underlying techniques and enable us to push novel model customizations with good system support.  
 
## Reason #3: Build Software Stack for Emerging Hardware  

We are at a golden age of hardware accelerations for machine learning, with waves of environments and innovations coming up.  

Machine learning compilation provides tools to build software stacks that keeps up with new hardware acceleration features and model developments.  

## Reason #4: Machine Learning Compilation is Fun!  

With the set of modern machine learning compilation tools, we can get into stages of machine learning model from high-level, code optimizations, to bare metal.  
It is really fun to get end to end understanding of what is happening here and use them to solve our problems.  


## Key Elements in Machine Learning Compilation  

Tensor multi-dimensional array that stores the input, output and intermediate results of model executions.  

Tensor Functions that encodes computations  


## Example Compilation Process  

比如将两步融合为一步，减少一些的输入输出的消耗，将linear&&relu融合  

## Abstraction and Implementation  

Abstraction refers to different ways to represent the same system interface (tensor function) .  

We use abstractions to denote the ways we use to represent the same tensor function. Different abstractions may specify some details while leaving out other implementation details. For example, linear_relu can be implemented using another different for loops.

